# Workforce Asset and Training Application

## Table of Contents

1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
1. [What You Will Be Learning](#what-you-will-be-learning)
1. [Requirements](#requirements)
1. [Resources](#resources)

## Prerequisites

* [ASP.NET MVC](https://docs.asp.net/en/latest/mvc/overview.html)
* Migrations
* View templates
* Controllers
* ERD development
* Routing
* Yeoman, and the ASP.NET generator, [installed](#installing-yeoman-and-the-aspnet-generator)

## What You Will Be Learning

### Server Generated Application

All views in this application will be generated on the server, using templates, and delivered to the client as a complete HTML document.

### View Templates

You learned about view templates when you used Angular, but now your application server will be serving a fully built template to any client request instead of the client building the view.

## Requirements

You will be building a fairly straightforward, server generated MVC application for performing CRUD operations on the following resources:

* Employees
* Departments
* Computers
* Training Programs

The following relationships must be established.

1. Over time, a computer can belong to many employees, but only one at a time.
1. An employee can attend many training programs.
1. A training program can have many employees attending.
1. Many employees can be assigned to a department, but an employees may only be in one at a time.

Produce the following views.

### Employee Views

1. List employees.
1. Create an employee, and assign to a department.
1. View employee, which shows their department, computer, and any training programs they are attending.
1. Edit employee, which should also allow the user to:
    1. Reassign the employee to a different department
    1. Change which computer they are using from a list of unused computers.
    1. Add and/or remove training programs that the employee is attending.

### Department Views

1. List departments.
1. Create a department.
1. Department details, which should show all employees in that department.

### Computer Views

1. List computers, and be able to delete a computer from the list view.
1. Create a computer.

### Training Program Views

1. List training programs.
1. Create training program.
1. View training program details. This should display any employees that are currently in the training program

### Common Views

1. Basic navigation bar that allows the user to view the list of each type of resource.
1. Footer containing the company name.

## Resources

### Razor Templates

ASP.NET MVC views are generated by the [Razor view engine](https://docs.asp.net/en/latest/mvc/overview.html#razor-view-engine). You will find them *very* similar to Handlebar templates that you used in the client side course of NSS.
